I'm a college sophomore,
first-year Chinese student,
but I started learning
Chinese at the age of four.
Not only are my mom and dad,
my dad's parents,
my mom's parents,
all not Chinese,
but there's also not a single
Chinese person in my immediate family.
My mom told me
that when I was three
years old I asked them,
"Why don't I take Chinese classes?"
And they said, "Because
we're not Chinese."
Then I said, "But my best
friend takes Chinese classes!"
And my parents told me,
"That's because she's Chinese."
I asked them every day to
let me take Chinese classes
And several months
later, they agreed.
A few years later,
my best friend moved away,
and I couldn't see
her anymore,
but I still continued
to take Chinese classes.
When I was six I started
going to a Saturday school,
called East Bay Chinese School.
At first, I didn't know
a single person there.
I was so nervous!
The classes got harder and harder
and I didn't know anyone
outside of class who spoke Chinese
so I had no way to practice.
Because it was
so hard for me,
my dad started
to learn with me.
He helped me with Chinese
even while he was working.
He's a really great dad!
We would practice
together every week
But my dad wasn't
actually a student,
so around the time I was taking
second-year and third-year Chinese
he didn't have the time to help me anymore,
and the classes were also a
lot harder than the first year.
From that point on I only
practiced one or two hours a week
And as I grew up, I got even busier.
After every test, I forgot all the
vocabulary and grammar I had learned.
Even though I've been studying
Chinese for so many years,
before I started taking Chinese in college
I couldn't speak Chinese very well at all.
Well, I still think I don't
think my Chinese is that good.
But this class is really important to me.
It inspired me to learn even more, and to
continue learning for the foreseeable future.